The tension at the
border of
Israel and Gaza is palpable tonight.
And here
where Nic Robertson is,
you can even hear the thuds
of the explosions in Gaza
from here in Tel Aviv.
It comes as
we are learning tonight
about the incredible bravery
of a retired Israeli general
who headed straight into a hall
Oh's kibbutz,
which is just a few miles from Gaza
as it was under attack
on Saturday morning and along the way.
General Ziv,
armed only
with a pistol, encountered
Israeli soldiers
who were outmanned and outgunned.
And I spoke with him.
He was deeply emotional,
as he told me about the horrors
he witnessed
General,
that morning Saturday morning,
you.
Was this the gun?
What what kind did you have?
This is new This is new.
The gun that they had
was was a little bit more simple.
It's this one
that was your pistol.
So you were about to go
for a bike ride, collect,
take your pistol with you?
No, I live next to Kfar Saba.
Yeah,
it's like an hour and a half from here.
And it was biking my bike at 6:00, like,
every Saturday.
And we had that left, and
I thought it,
you know, might be some rocket
or something simple that we already know.
Yes.
And then I had the call
that something very serious
and very heavy is happening.
So I took that.
The only four
that are waiting
for such occasion in the cabinet
and took my college and run to Gaza
to to engage to two to me, the forces
So then what did you do
We had
very few forces, very few units.
So I engage with the units
and we went to a place to a place
to see what's going on
along the way with a lot of engagements.
The, well, huge amount with Hamas.
Yes, a lot of close contact engagements.
So I was with the soldiers.
I was shooting with that
when a soldier was was injured
next to me.
I took his gun and shot and we progress
from place to place all day long
until late night.
And then later on that evening
or Saturday night, more units came in.
So I had to engage them
into the situation
and have them to
to manage with the battle
in some of the kibbutzim.
In general, what did you see?
What did you see them doing
in this kibbutz?
You know, it's, it's it's terrible.
In my whole military career,
I haven't seen such a lot of fighting
and terrible things,
you know, off of killing.
I saw women
holding their children
and being shot by holding them.
People were hiding,
you know, on the furnitures
and got murdered.
I saw a few people that
the head was Trump
children
so it
was terrible, terrible,
terrible, terrible.
And we say we feel I feel a shame.
We fail to to protect them.
They they live here
that were the first line
of all Israel or Passover, anything.
And we fail we fail to to to defend them.
It's it's it's a personal humiliation
and national humiliation.
Humiliation at the same time.
So it is hard for anyone to hear
what you're saying,
to imagine that you saw you had to
to see a mother within the child.
Sorry, people.
I mean,
can you even unsee such things?
Could you even comprehend,
as you saw it happen, that it was
that it was a human
being doing these things
to another human being,
and nothing of that is human.
It's it's animals.
It's only animals can do such a thing.
I've never seen such a thing.
This is this is really
low as only animal can do.
It's only animal can do.
I there's nothing human
that you can see in the act.
You know, it's it's
burning, burning, burning, people.
I went that afternoon and later to
to the party, to the festival
hundreds of people and kids,
you know, 16, 17, 18,
Masako are dead.
And you saw because I know
and when you kill somebody
from close contact
and some of them try to escape
so they're waiting for them
to get to the car
and they start to shoot.
And then when they are in the car
they are trapped.
And you saw, you know,
just just
overwhelmed by
the amount of bullets.
And later on they try to burn the car
with the with the, with the bodies
animals, real animals.
And we cannot have them as a neighbor.
I mean,
the, you know,
if they act as there is a jungle law,
we have to act also with it
because we are in the same jungle.
And we cannot have the jungle in our own,
you know, own homes.
How many Hamas fighters did you see?
Who was how many did you see?
Myself in my own I.
Dozens of them.
Yeah, but but I think they were
much above 1500 Hamas.
I mean, I didn't know that by then.
But what we have learned later
is that that there were
at least 1500 people or more.
Some of them, you know, more
commando type.
The first line of of toll, these
some of them a second assailant
and even civilians,
they call civilians to take gun
to come over to the kibbutzim.
And, you know, and been and rape
and do whatever they want.
And and we killed many,
many of those, by the way.
All of them came with the weapon.
General, thank you very much.
Thank you
very much
for full asking and being here with us.
Thank you very much.
General.
Safe did not hold back
on criticizing his own government
and his own military.
He called what happened Saturday
a complete failure
It's a total collapse.
I'm not going to say any excuses.
It's a systematic collapse.
It's it's the intelligence.
It's the whole defense system.
The defense system has a lot of elements.
You know,
it's it's it's defense is the technology.
It's the deployment of the army.
It's the back up, so many things.
It all collapsed so so we cannot,
you know, saying that
any excuses is not is not acceptable.
We have to inquire that.
We have to investigate
what did we have to learn?
A very serious lessons,
by the way, in none of the scenarios,
we had an ideal the Hamas form for me
Still, the organization
will act as an army.
What we think
today is that that Iran is behind it.
They're plain is a copy paste
of the Fevola.
They have a similar playing in
in the in the north
in all over the Sydney.
Exactly the same thing
that we have seen here but then again
we should have guess or learn or take
under a serious assumption
that such thing could have happened
and within the security lapse
prior to Hamas's
assault over
the weekend
has many wondering
what will be done
to make sure it never happens again.
Joining us now is former Israeli
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett.
Sir, we appreciate your time
this morning.
We want to look forward
and kind of what to expect,
what you're seeing.
But to start there,
I think it's been striking
when you listen to Israeli
officials, IDF officials,
as they try and figure out what happened,
including this from a retired general
to our colleague last night.
Take a listen.
We say
we feel I
feel a shame we fail to to protect them.
They they live here
that are the first line
of full Israel of our sovereignty.
And we fail we fail to to to defend them.
It's a personal humiliation
and national humiliation,
humiliation at the same time.
And, sir,
I think what stuck out to me,
you had an interview with Channel 11 News
where you're talking about
how the international community views
Israel right now, said,
I don't want their pity.
I want them to fear us.
I want them to understand our strength.
Are you concerned that kind of the the
how Israel is perceived
has been punctured
over the course of the last six days?
Oh, absolutely.
And whoever that general is is correct
there.
There's no doubt
the first and foremost duty
sovereign state
is to protect its citizens
and it's actually 1500
Israeli citizens were slaughtered
by Nazi monsters
and go were enough to fix all of this off
of our military history
teaches us that time and again,
there's a limit to
our mistakes like
brutal barber like Barbaro
sound like nine elevenths
like the Yom Kippur War
were enough to fix it.
But now our view is forward
into the next stage
from collecting ourselves
and taking out and killing
all the
terrorists that entered Israel
to the next stage. The offensive stage.